{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16860\viewh25760\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Variables index\
\
				####################\
				### main.cpp ########\
				####################\
\
\pard\tx543\pardeftab543\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 !!!  IMPORTANT MODEL INFORMATION !!!\
The main parameters for NCDs can be changed at the start of eventfunction.cpp\
CAUTION: if end date is extended beyond 2035 checks need to made for arrays, parameters etc!\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
			\'97\'97 MAIN PARAMETERS \'97\'97\'97\
double *p_GT;					// Pointer to global time\
\
int *p_PY;						// Pointer to year range currently in (e.g. 1950 to 1955)\
\
int PY=0;						// Set the first pointer to year range i.e. 1950-1955\
\
double StartYear=1950;			// Set start date of model\
\
int EndYear=2035;				// Set end date of model\
\
const long long int final_number_people=100000000;			// Give a large number to contain all people to be modelled\
\
int UN_Pop=5909800;			// Number of people 1st Jan 1950 (calculated in Excel)\
\
int init_pop =UN_Pop/100;			// Divide UN number by 100 to make manageable and match output files\
\
int total_population=init_pop;		// set total pop to init pop at start of model\
\
double Sex_ratio=0.495639296;	// defined ratio of men versus women\
\
int ageAdult=15;				// Tells the model to count adults as of 15 years of age, for validation purposes - ADJUST IF NECESSARY \
\
eaten double ARTbuffer;			// Buffer for adding people to ART each year; defined externally in eventsfunctions.cpp - COUNTRY SPECIFIC! Move to\
							LoadParam.txt once we make the countries switch work. \
\
extern double MortRisk[6];			// Array of mortality risk for NCDs from Smith et al. Factors associated with\'85 Defined in events function.cpp (move to\
							LoadParam.txt!!!!!\
				<< MortRisk[0] << 	0		Hypertension\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 				<< MortRisk[1] << 	0		Depression\
				<< MortRisk[2] <<	0.85		Asthma\
				<< MortRisk[3] <<	1.3		Stroke\
				<< MortRisk[4] <<	1.1		Diabetes					<< MortRisk[5] <<	0.8		Hypercholesterolaemia\
				<< MortRisk[6] <<	Dummy\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
extern double MortRisk_Cancer[5];	// Array of mortality risk for NCDs from Smith et al. Factors associated with\'85 Defined in events function.cpp (move to\
							LoadParam.txt!!!!!\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 				<< MortRisk_Cancer[0] << 	1		Breast\
				<< MortRisk_Cancer[1] << 	1		Cervical\
				<< MortRisk_Cancer[2] <<		1		Colon\
				<< MortRisk_Cancer[3] <<		1		Liver\
				<< MortRisk_Cancer[4] <<		1		Oesophageal\
				<< MortRisk_Cancer[5] <<		1.05		Prostate\
				<< MortRisk_Cancer[6] <<		x		Other cancers\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
extern double MortAdj;			// Adjustment for background mortality rate; defined externally in events functions.cpp - COUNTRY SPECIFIC. Move to\
							LoadParam.txt once we make the countries switch work. \
\
int ART_start_yr=2004;			// Year ART was introduced in the country; same for both Kenya and Zimbabwe\
\
// GBD percentages				// TO DO: define externally; mortality as percent of total deaths for 2016 (https://vizhub.healthdata.org/gbd-compare/) - download the csv from the visualisation tool there. Background is 100-SUM of the rest. \
double background_d =71.32;\
double HIV_d        =15.56;\
double HT_d         =3.99;\
double Depression_d =0.0;\
double Asthma_d     =0.45;\
double Stroke_d     =3.92;\
double Diabetes_d   =1.27;\
double CKD_d        =1.5;\
double Colo_d       =0.39;\
double Liver_d      =0.34;\
double Oeso_d       =0.32;\
double Prostate_d    =0.31;\
double OtherCan_d   =0.71;\
\
\
			\'97\'97\'97SECTION 3 - MAKING A POPULATION \'97\'97\'97\
Male 	Sex == 1 \
Female	Sex == 2\
\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 			\'97\'97\'97SECTION 6 - WRITING CSV \'97\'97\'97\
REMEMBER TO CHANGE NAME AND DIRECTORY AS APPROPRIATE, otherwise it will throw a \'93BAD ACCESS\'94 code out. }